# GSS: General Social Survey 

The General Social Survey, or [GSS](https://gss.norc.org/), is a cross-sectional study of attitudes, behaviors, and characteristics of the American population headed by NORC at the University of Chicago. The GSS has been fielded in some iteration since 1972. The surveys generally ask questions regarding demographics, behaviors, attitudes, and special interest topics pertinent to the year(s) of survey fielding. These special topics may include civil liberties, crime, violence, intergroup relations, morals, and other topics related to politics and society in the United States. 

As expected of a public opinion dataset, data are at the individual level. GSS has singificant [documentation](https://gss.norc.org/documents/codebook/GSS_Codebook_AppendixA.pdf) of their sampling choices and limitations over the years, which are the consequence of both changes in the American population *and* major changes and developments in social sciences. In general, the sampling protocol follos a multi-stage cluster probability sample at the block level. Sampling quotas are given over gender, age, and employment status, with further rules over times of day that canvassing is allowed by enumerators to reduce potential bias. Metropolitan areas or counties define the primary sampling units, which are stratifed by region, age, and race before random selection. The secondary sampling units within these counties and metropolitan areas are block gorups and enumeration districts-- stratified according to race and income. Blocks compose the third or tertiary sampling unit, which are chosen with probability proportional to population size per block. To choose individuals in each block, enumerators visit the first residence at the northwest corner of the block and then travel across the space until the necessary quotas are filled with respect to sampling. 